Dr. Mary L.W. Midden, 94, of Springfield, passed away on Thursday, February 20, 2025, at Springfield Memorial Hospital.

Mary was born October 6, 1930, in Springfield, IL, the daughter of Joseph and Helen (Jarzewiak) Wangard. She married Charles J. Midden in 1953. He preceded her in death in 2010.

She was employed at Allis Chalmers, Dental Service Laboratory, State House of Representatives, and IL Retired Teachers Association. Mary was a lector at St. Agnes Church and Art Consultant for the Sally Gracey Collection. Her education was with Sacred Heart Academy, Webster Groves, Roosevelt and Illinois Business College. Mary also earned a Doctorate of Music at the University of Amsterdam, Netherlands. Dr. Midden’s music talent placed her with luminaries such as: Hoagy Carmichael, Guy Lombardo, Franke Carle, Spike Jones, Jose Iturbi, Peter Nero, and Horst Jankowski.

Mary enjoyed gardening, herbal medicines, poetry, writing, and painting. She had two, one-woman art shows of her oils and acrylics and participated in three early Art Fairs on the Old Capitol Square. She was a member of National League of American Pen Women. She pioneered “angel awareness” in the Springfield Diocese, writing articles and columns in The Community Evening Herald and Catholic Times. She began: “The Heavenly Diaries” in February of 1982. She also learned the languages of German, Hebrew, Portuguese, and Russian. After retirement, she thoroughly enjoyed the Tuesday Group, and taking APL and Illinois Humane Society Dogs to visit nursing homes.

She was preceded in death by her parents; husband, Charles; and two daughters, Mary Huntley and Regina Farley.

Mary is survived by her children, Marshall (Susan) Midden of Maple Grove, MN, Cosima (Charles) VanBuskirk of Ventura, CA, Derek (Kim) Midden of Chatham, and Selena Midden of Springfield; grandchildren, Susan Pagnac, Jonathan (Kimberly) VanBuskirk, Christopher and Michelle Huntley, and Skylar and Tylar Midden; and three great-grandchildren, Darius, Katie, and Riya VanBuskirk.

A Memorial Service to celebrate Mary’s life will be held at 2:00 p.m. on Saturday, March 15, 2025, at Boardman-Smith Funeral Home, 800 S. Grand Ave. W., Springfield, with Very Rev. Daniel J. Bergbower officiating.

In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Regina Midden Farley Scholarship Fund at the University of Illinois, Springfield, Illinois Humane Society, and Good Days.
